kie-issues#1059: EPIC - Sonataflow management console (#2532)
apache/incubator-kie-tools: packages/sonataflow-management-console-webapp/README.md

# sonataflow-management-console-webapp

> 

Reviewer: Please describe this package in a few words, targeting users who may consume it.

# sonataflow-management-console-webapp

## Working with Management Console features

> TODO

Reviewer 2: Leftovers?

Author: @ricardozanini I removed this section as maybe we prefer to use https://sonataflow.org to present SonataFlow Management Console?

## Enabling Keycloak security

### Starting and Configuring the Keycloak Server

To start a Keycloak Server you can use Docker and just run the following command:

```

> docker run -e KEYCLOAK_USER=admin -e KEYCLOAK_PASSWORD=admin -e KEYCLOAK_IMPORT=/tmp/sonataflow-realm.json -v ./dev/config/sonataflow-realm.json:/tmp/sonataflow-realm.json -p 8280:8080 quay.io/keycloak/keycloak:legacy

Reviewer 2: This image is too old; it is two years old. Can we consider upgrading it?

Author: @ricardozanini  Here, for consistency,  I followed the version 23.0.7 following:
https://github.com/apache/incubator-kie-kogito-runtimes/blob/7041f762ef94ab8411eac913f2913a8921eadd5d/kogito-build/kogito-dependencies-bom/pom.xml#L111
But I can use a newer version.

## Enabling Keycloak security

### Starting and Configuring the Keycloak Server

To start a Keycloak Server you can use Docker and just run the following command:

```
docker run -e KEYCLOAK_ADMIN=admin -e KEYCLOAK_ADMIN_PASSWORD=admin -v ./dev/config/sonataflow-realm.json:/opt/keycloak/data/import/realm.json -p 8280:8080 quay.io/keycloak/keycloak:25.0.3 start-dev --import-realm
```

You should be able to access your Keycloak Server at [localhost:8280/auth](http://localhost:8280)
and verify keycloak server is running properly: log in as the admin user to access the Keycloak Administration Console.
Username should be admin and password admin.

The following are the users available in keycloak

| Login | Password | Roles               |
| ----- | -------- | ------------------- |
| admin | admin    | _admin_, _managers_ |
| alice | alice    | _user_              |
| jdoe  | jdoe     | _managers_          |

To change any of this client configuration access to http://localhost:8280/auth/admin/master/console/#/realms/sonataflow.

### Changing configs

Enable `PROD` env mode by running the app with:

> `SONATAFLOW_MANAGEMENT_CONSOLE_WEBAPP__sonataflowEnvMode=PROD pnpm dev`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`SONATAFLOW_MANAGEMENT_CONSOLE_WEBAPP__sonataflowEnvMode=PROD pnpm start`
```

?

-->

# SonataFlow Management Console Webapp

The Sonataflow Management Console Webapp is a production-ready web application designed for managing and monitoring serverless workflows. It includes security features such as user authentication integrating with Keycloak Server.

## Enabling Keycloak security

### Starting and Configuring the Keycloak Server

To start a Keycloak Server you can use Docker and just run the following command:

```
docker run -e KEYCLOAK_ADMIN=admin -e KEYCLOAK_ADMIN_PASSWORD=admin -v ./dev/config/sonataflow-realm.json:/opt/keycloak/data/import/realm.json -p 8280:8080 quay.io/keycloak/keycloak:25.0.3 start-dev --import-realm
```

You should be able to access your Keycloak Server at [localhost:8280/auth](http://localhost:8280)
and verify keycloak server is running properly: log in as the admin user to access the Keycloak Administration Console.
Username should be admin and password admin.

The following are the users available in keycloak

| Login | Password | Roles               |
| ----- | -------- | ------------------- |
| admin | admin    | _admin_, _managers_ |
| alice | alice    | _user_              |
| jdoe  | jdoe     | _managers_          |

> To change any of this client configuration access to http://localhost:8280/auth/admin/master/console/#/realms/sonataflow.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To change any of this client configuration navigate to http://localhost:8280/auth/admin/master/console/#/realms/kogito.
```

Changing to `kogito` to correspond to definitions in `dev/config/sonataflow-realm.json`
Could be also done the other way around.

### Changing configs

Enable `PROD` env mode by running the app with:

> `SONATAFLOW_MANAGEMENT_CONSOLE_WEBAPP__sonataflowEnvMode=PROD pnpm start`

Reviewer 3: Currently having issues with this procedure:

1. `cd sonataflow-management-console-webapp`
2. `docker run -e KEYCLOAK_ADMIN=admin -e KEYCLOAK_ADMIN_PASSWORD=admin -v ./dev/config/sonataflow-realm.json:/opt/keycloak/data/import/realm.json -p 8280:8080 quay.io/keycloak/keycloak:25.0.0 start-dev --import-realm`
3. `export SONATAFLOW_MANAGEMENT_CONSOLE_WEBAPP__sonataflowEnvMode=PROD && pnpm start`

[Screencast from 2024-09-05 12-31-05.webm](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b7180e89-3a4a-4ed8-b405-70c47b682d3f)

# sonataflow-management-console-webapp

## Enabling Keycloak security

### Starting and Configuring the Keycloak Server

To start a Keycloak Server you can use Docker and just run the following command:

```

> docker run -e KEYCLOAK_ADMIN=admin -e KEYCLOAK_ADMIN_PASSWORD=admin -v ./dev/config/sonataflow-realm.json:/opt/keycloak/data/import/realm.json -p 8280:8080 quay.io/keycloak/keycloak:23.0.7 start-dev --import-realm

Reviewer 2: Have you tried the 25.x version? Or is there any specific requirement for using this version?

Author: @ricardozanini  There is no requirement I only followed the same version used in kogio-runtimes.
Now I changed to 25.0.3
